Welcome back in this lecture we're going to discuss color spaces so far we've only worked with RSGB
color spaces that is insane.
RG coding or red green blue coding colors are modeled as a combination of red green and blue.
However R.G. coding is actually a very old color coding and in the 1970s H S L or hue saturation lightness
and HSV hue saturation value where new color models developed as alternatives to R.G. be h s l n h s
v are actually more closely aligned the way human vision actually perceives color while in the course
since we're just dealing with images we deal almost exclusively of RGV images or the painting and how
we open them.
BGR but the same rule applies.
There's combinations of red green and blue.
However even though we're mainly thinking of our G-B images it's a good idea to understand the very
basics of how to convert to sell an H S V color spaces.
So let's quickly describe these color spaces how they're different than R.G. be and they will open up
a notebook and briefly go over how you could convert an RG image to an HSF or HSP color space.
So as we already know the R.G. B model is essentially going to represent a color as a combination of
blue red and green which we can describe this as a cube where we have some valley of blue from 0 to
255 some valley of red from 0 to 255.
And then some value of green and if we were to cut away from the cube we can see there we have a value
of kind of the Teal ish blue there and we would say red is going to be one fifth.
So it's not actually just one fifth of all values.
It's actually one fifth time's 255 and in green there's more green there so it's three fifths times
255 and then blue is for this time 255.
So we can see they're just kind of how far along the scale of blue red and green we are for that particular
color.
So that's what we're already used to.
Now let's move on to talk about H S L and we can visualize this as a cylinder model the way h s l works
is we have hue saturation and lightness and an HSV we're going to have hue saturation and then value.
So hue saturation.
Basically what this is is all around the cylinder.
There's going to be the actual different color that is the green the yellow the red what actual hue
we're looking for and then saturation is just how much of that hue you end up having and lightness is
how dark or light it is.
So we can see here on the top of the cylinder all the values are actually pure white.
They're all just as light.
So the absolute lightness you can get is just pure white.
And at the bottom of the cylinder we have pure black which is essentially no lightness in the color
regardless of its saturation or hue.
This is similar to an HSV cylinder model except instead of having a lightness we have a value.
So again we have the hue color all around the circle and then saturation is going to define how close
we are to white versus how Satria we are in a particular hue.
So notice now the top is basically the same hue all around and we're just deciding on a particular value
depending on the hue and saturation.
And you may have played of some color pictures before that followed the sort of model but notice now
the White is actually at the very center of that cylinder.
So essentially no saturation of any hue by default is going to be white.
OK.
So this lecture is going to be a quick review on using the CVT color function to change color spaces
will actually have the cell or HSP based color images in the rest of the course.
So this will just be a very brief lecture.
We'll see you there.
OK.
Let's quickly show you how to convert an image to HSV or H S L color space.
All you need to do is say import CB2 And then if we want to actually display the results of these images
we can say import plus lib that PI plot as Piel T and then we'll say that plot lib in line OK let's
choose any image he wants we'll just say CB2 image read.
And in this case I will go and upload or download the puppy.
Let's go ahead and see that we'll say peel t him show and show that image.
And there's our puppy Lotus right now.
It's in its default color space farm open C-v which is blue green red.
However the image was actually coated like that.
So let's do a quick review in order to fix this.
On it says image is equal to CB2 thought CVT color pasand the image and then say CB2 thought and in
all caps color and then the coating that it's in right now which is blue green red and then say to the
coating the one added red green blue and if we display the image after that we'll see that we get the
nice puppy.
All right.
So what happens when we try to convert this to HSV or h s l.
Well it's actually a very similar process only do is copy the same code here and we'll go from now.
Remember now we have it in RSGB.
And in fact what we can do if we want we can reload the image so we go from BGR but we'll go from RG
B and then we can go to and if we want to go to HSV you can just start typing and you'll see HSV there.
So if you show that image it's going to look really strange because now it's in hue saturation and value.
So it won't really make sense to display it this way because the color channels weren't modeled like
that but that is the way you would actually convert image to be read in and you could convert it from
RG B to HSV or if you happen to be reading it originally with M red you could also do BGR to HSV.
So lots of different options here.
None of them make that much sense from HSV or H cell just because the original image was encoded that
way.
And as I mention those for HSV use saturation value it's basically the same thing.
If you want to go from a red green blue image to h s or h l s excuse me he lightness saturation you
can do it this way as well run.
And now you see the results there again very strange kind of weird ugly results because the original
image wasn't coded that way.
Main thing you need to get in mind is there's various color spaces.
If you ever need to do any sort of conversion they're pretty much all here for you just a color underscore
tab and you'll see all the various options for you.
OK.
So.
Tons.
Tons of options.
And usually you only need them in certain specific cases for the rest of the course.
We're just going to be doing this blue going to red to red green blue.
All right.
We'll see you at the next lecture.